power-annotations/README.adoc, before:

= Power-Annotations

Power-Annotations is actually independent of GraphQL. It's a generic mechanism for meta annotations. It consists of annotations you can put on your code and (for now only) implementation using a maven plugin to build a Jandex index file.

== Annotations

=== Stereotypes

The simplest use-case for Stereotypes is renaming annotations, e.g. `@Property` instead of `@JsonbProperty` (assuming your JBON-B implementation supported Power Annotations).

[source,java]
----
@Retention(RUNTIME)
@Stereotype
@JsonbProperty
public @interface Property {}
----

It gets much more interesting, when you add more annotations from other (supporting) frameworks to your stereotype, e.g. `@XmlAttribute` from JAX-B. Now you have one annotation instead of two with both having the same semantics.

Properly used, stereotypes are shortcuts describing the role the annotated element has; functionally as well as a documentation.

This is exactly what https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/2.0/cdi-spec-2.0.html#stereotypes[CDI-Stereotypes] do, but not restricted to CDI, i.e. the annotations used by any framework that supports Power Annotations can be used with stereotypes. We have our own `Stereotype` class; but as we don't want to depend on CDI and still not exclude CDI, any annotation named `Stereotype` will work.


// TODO === Resolve From Class
//
//This is a very common pattern: annotations on a class are considered as a fallback for member annotations (i.e. on fields or methods), if
//
//* the member is not annotated with the same type or the annotation is repeatable, and
//* the annotation is annotated to be an _explicitly_ allowed `@Target` for `FIELD`/`METHOD`.


// TODO === Inheritance
//
//When annotating a super class or interface, the annotation is valid also for the sub class or interface. This is also true for annotations on overridden or implemented methods.
//
//In Java reflection, this only works for super classes and only if the annotation is annotated as `@Inherited`. As this generally violates the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle[LSP], power-annotations always resolves these annotations. We may add a mechanism to _not_ inherit annotations later, if the need actually arises.

=== Mixins

Say you have a class you want to add annotations to, but you can't; e.g., because it's a class from some library or even from the JDK. You can create your own class (or interface) and annotate it as `@MixinFor` the target class. The annotations you put on your mixin class will work as if they were on the target class (if your framework supports Power Annotations).

This also works for annotations: say we're developing an application packed with annotations from JPA, which doesn't support mixins (yet). The application also uses a library that supports mixins but doesn't know about JPA, e.g. a future MP GraphQL. We want all JPA `@Id` annotations to be recognized as synonyms for GraphQL `@Id` annotations. We could create a simple mixin for the JPA annotation:

[source,java]
----
@MixinFor(javax.persistence.Id.class)
@org.eclipse.microprofile.graphql.Id
public class PersistenceIdMixin {}
----

Voila! MP GraphQL would work as if all JPA `@Id` annotations were it's own.

NOTE: Mixins are a very powerful kind of magic: use them with caution and only when strictly necessary. Otherwise, the readers of your code will have a hard time to find out why something behaves as if an annotation was there, but it's clearly not. If you can, use Stereotypes instead.

Commit message:

#316: power annotations scanner and tck (and utils)
Signed-off-by: Rüdiger zu Dohna <snackbox@sinntr.eu>

power-annotations/README.adoc, after:

= Power-Annotations

Power-Annotations is actually independent of GraphQL. It's a generic mechanism for meta annotations. It consists of annotations you can put on your code (these are meant to become a separate standard) and the following implementations:

1. A maven plugin to build a Jandex index file (and resolve all power annotations). This replaces the `jandex-maven-plugin`. It currently has fewer options, but as we only want to build what people actually need, give us a call if you need more!

2. A classpath scanner to build a Jandex index at runtime (and resolve all power annotations).

There's also a TCK to test, if an implementation adheres to the standard defined by the annotations. It uses an Utils API, so the TCK can also verify implementations not using Jandex. This Annotation Utils API may be convenient for your usage as well, as, e.g., it also resolves repeated annotations.

== Annotations

=== Stereotypes

The simplest use-case for Stereotypes is renaming annotations, e.g. `@Property` instead of `@JsonbProperty` (assuming your JBON-B implementation supported Power Annotations).

[source,java]
----
@Retention(RUNTIME)
@Stereotype
@JsonbProperty
public @interface Property {}
----

It gets much more interesting, when you add more annotations from other (supporting) frameworks to your stereotype, e.g. `@XmlAttribute` from JAX-B. Now you have one annotation instead of two with both having the same semantics.

Properly used, stereotypes are shortcuts describing the role the annotated element has; functionally as well as a documentation.

This is exactly what https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/2.0/cdi-spec-2.0.html#stereotypes[CDI-Stereotypes] do, but not restricted to CDI, i.e. the annotations used by any framework that supports Power Annotations can be used with stereotypes. We have our own `Stereotype` class; but as we don't want to depend on CDI and still not exclude CDI, any annotation named `Stereotype` will work.


// TODO === Resolve From Class
//
//This is a very common pattern: annotations on a class are considered as a fallback for member annotations (i.e. on fields or methods), if
//
//* the member is not annotated with the same type or the annotation is repeatable, and
//* the annotation is annotated to be an _explicitly_ allowed `@Target` for `FIELD`/`METHOD`.


// TODO === Inheritance
//
//When annotating a super class or interface, the annotation is valid also for the sub class or interface. This is also true for annotations on overridden or implemented methods.
//
//In Java reflection, this only works for super classes and only if the annotation is annotated as `@Inherited`. As this generally violates the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle[LSP], power-annotations always resolves these annotations. We may add a mechanism to _not_ inherit annotations later, if the need actually arises.

=== Mixins

Say you have a class you want to add annotations to, but you can't; e.g., because it's a class from some library or even from the JDK. You can create your own class (or interface or even annotation) and annotate it as `@MixinFor` the target class. The annotations you put on your mixin class will work as if they were on the target class (if your framework supports Power Annotations).

This also works for annotations: say we're developing an application packed with annotations from JPA, which doesn't support mixins (yet). The application also uses a library that supports mixins but doesn't know about JPA, e.g. a future MP GraphQL. We want all JPA `@Id` annotations to be recognized as synonyms for GraphQL `@Id` annotations. We could create a simple mixin for the JPA annotation:

[source,java]
----
@MixinFor(javax.persistence.Id.class)
@org.eclipse.microprofile.graphql.Id
public class PersistenceIdMixin {}
----

Voila! MP GraphQL would work as if all JPA `@Id` annotations were it's own.

NOTE: Mixins are a very powerful kind of magic: use them with caution and only when strictly necessary. Otherwise, the readers of your code will have a hard time to find out why something behaves as if an annotation was there, but it's clearly not. If you can, use Stereotypes instead.
