maven-plugin/README.adoc, before:

= SmallRye GraphQL Maven Plugin

This maven plugin allows you to generate the GraphQL Schema on build.

== Using the Maven plugin

Add this to your pom.xml:

[source]
----
<plugin>
    <artifactId>smallrye-graphql-maven-plugin</artifactId>
    <groupId>io.smallrye</groupId>
    <executions>
        <execution>
            <goals>
                <goal>generate-schema</goal>
            </goals>
        </execution>
    </executions>
</plugin>
----

The schema will appear as `target/generated/schema.graphql` by default. 

== Configuration options

- `destination` - To override the default `target/generated/schema.graphql` destination
- `includeDependencies` - Scan project's dependencies for GraphQL model classes too. Off (false) by default.
- `includeScalars` - Include scalars in the schema. Default false.
- `includeDirectives` - Include directives in the schema. Default false.
- `includeSchemaDefinition` - Include the schema definition. Default false.
- `includeIntrospectionTypes` - Include the introspection types in the schema. Default false.

Commit message:

Added two more options when including dependencies in the maven plugin Signed-off-by:Phillip Kruger <phillip.kruger@gmail.com>

maven-plugin/README.adoc, after:

= SmallRye GraphQL Maven Plugin

This maven plugin allows you to generate the GraphQL Schema on build.

== Using the Maven plugin

Add this to your pom.xml:

[source]
----
<plugin>
    <artifactId>smallrye-graphql-maven-plugin</artifactId>
    <groupId>io.smallrye</groupId>
    <executions>
        <execution>
            <goals>
                <goal>generate-schema</goal>
            </goals>
        </execution>
    </executions>
</plugin>
----

The schema will appear as `target/generated/schema.graphql` by default. 

== Configuration options

- `destination` - To override the default `target/generated/schema.graphql` destination
- `includeDependencies` - Scan project's dependencies for GraphQL model classes too. Off (false) by default.
- `includeDependenciesScopes` - If the above `includeDependencies` is true, you can control what scopes should be included. Default is `compile, system`
- `includeDependenciesTypes` - If the above `includeDependencies` is true, you can control what types should be included. Default is `jar`
- `includeScalars` - Include scalars in the schema. Default false.
- `includeDirectives` - Include directives in the schema. Default false.
- `includeSchemaDefinition` - Include the schema definition. Default false.
- `includeIntrospectionTypes` - Include the introspection types in the schema. Default false.
